How to guide for preparation of the prezipped dataset files (#57)
CONP-PCNO/conp-documentation: Developers-Notes/conp-dataset_creation_of_prezipped_archives_for_downloads.md

```

##### 7. Update the extracted archive to append the .git.log file

Once the DataLad archive has been created, run the script `XXXXXXX` that will:

```
cd <the output directory>
tar -rf <dataset name>.tar <dataset name>/.<dataset name>.git.log
gzip <dataset name>.tar
```

Example for the mousebytes dataset in the output directory `/data-scratch1/for_CONP_portal/.cache`:

```
cd /data-scratch1/for_CONP_portal/.cache
tar -rf mousebytes.tar mousebytes/.mousebytes.git.log
gzip mousebytes.tar
```

Note: to run this step on a list of datsets, create a text file with the list of datasets to process
and run the following in the directory that contains the archives:

```
cat ../list_of_datasets.txt | while read f; do tar -rf $(basename $f).tar $(basename $f)/.$(basename $f).git.log; gzip $(basename $f).tar; done
```

##### 8. Add the dataset version to the archive filename

This was done by hand but could be scripted in future creation of prezipped
archives.

```
mv <dataset name>.tar.gz <dataset_name>_version-<version-number>.tar.gz

> ```

Author: @xlecours Not sure I understand your latest comment. The renaming with the proper version is done in step 8. here. Am I missing something?

Author: @xlecours I just pushed some changes that maybe will reply to your comments about he _version- part?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mv <dataset name>.tar.gz <dataset_name>_version-<version-string>.tar.gz
Where <version-string> is the value of the version property in the DATS.json file.
```

the download dataset button, it was decided to create prezipped archives of the datasets 
that will be made available for download through the frontend of the portal.

## Which datasets should be prezipped?

Not all CONP datasets can be prezipped and available for download through the frontend of the portal. 

The datasets with the following criterias won't be made available for download:

- datasets that requires a third-party account: downloads should be handled either through DataLad that supports login credentials or via the third-party link
- dataset that are larger than 20GB: larger datasets cannot be downloaded through the backend

## Preparation of the prezipped file

Because of various DataLad issues encountered, this step cannot be automated for now and has to be
performed manually. Steps to perform this:

##### 1. Go into the `projects` directory of `conp-dataset`

```
cd <DATA_PATH>/conp-dataset/projects
```

##### 2. Install the dataset to be prezipped

```
datalad install <dataset name>
```

Notes:
 
- this step does not need to be done on the production server since the whole `conp-dataset`
has been installed recursively

> - for derived dataset, need to install the `conp-dataset` temporarily elsewhere without the `-r` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- for derived dataset, we need to install the `conp-dataset` temporarily elsewhere without the `-r` 
```
